# Paths and URLs

When using glossarify-md with a static website renderer it may be necessary to tweak links and link paths generated by glossarify-md. There are quite a few `linking` option which affect how links will be generated. They'll be explained in a bit more detail here:


## `paths` and `baseUrl`

**Rules of thumb**:

- Relative paths don't need a `baseUrl` absolute paths *most likely* do.
- Use absolute paths and `baseUrl` if the links should use URLs.

> Nevertheless, don't be surprised seeing `baseUrl` *and* `paths: relative`. This could be *for other reasons* than linking (e.g. Exporting/Importing).

## `pathComponents` and `pathRewrites`

**Rules of thumb**:

- Use `pathComponents` first, because it might be easier
- Use `pathRewrites` otherwise

### Changing the File Extension

One thing which the previous options do not care for are file extensions. For example glossarify-md will keep the `.md` file extension in output files assuming that any post processor should expect markdown files to link each other using that file extension.

However, some static website renderers or translators like pandoc are able to translate Markdown to HTML but forget about changing file extensions present in links:

- Use `pathComponents: ["path", "file"]` and omit `"ext"` to drop the file extension
- Use `pathRewrites: { ".html": ".md" }` to change the file extension

### Path Rewriting

If your post processor moves files around but is not able to properly adjust link paths, then you may whish glossarify-md to produce paths which resemble the final structure rather than the output structure created by glossarify-md.

**Rules of thumb**:

- `pathRewrites` won't change the output directory structure of glossarify-md's `outDir` *but links only*.
- Consider `paths: absolute` when rewriting *paths* (optionally with a `baseUrl`), it might be easier.
- You can only rewrite *URLs* which are based on `baseUrl`.

*Example: when markdown files from a deep structure get moved all into the same directory*
~~~
{
  "linking": {
    "pathRewrites": {
        "/images/$2.$3": ["(.*)/(.*).(png|jpg|svg|gif)"],
        "/files/$1.md": ["/(.*)/(.*).md"]
    }
  }
}
~~~

You can use anything acceptable to JavaScript's `String.replace()` method. Just note that in the rewrite map *keys are the replacer* and *values are one or more search expressions* (including regular expressions).
