# [Known Issues: Lists in GitHub Repos](#known-issues-lists-in-github-repos)

<!--
aliases: Lists on GitHub
-->

[2]: #large-file-link-target

**Note:** This issue may only affect you or your readers

1.  when navigating GitHub *previews* of Markdown files within a GitHub repository
2.  when navigating from a list item generated with the `listOf` [config option][1] to a link target that requires the browser to scroll the link target into the visible viewport

The issue is: \*the browser may not scroll the link target into the visible viewport as expected.

## [Reproduction of the Issue](#reproduction-of-the-issue)

Let's imagine such a GitHub repository. It has a file `README.md` that has a lot of text and some addressable HTML element `<cite>` quite at the bottom of that page:

    *README.md*

    ~~~md
    ... lot's of text here...
    <cite id="some-magazine" class="citations" >Some Magazine Title</cite>
    ~~~

*   ...to have a file `list.md` generated using `listOf` with `class: "citations"`:

    *list.md*

    ```md
    ## [Citations](#my-list)

    *   [Some Magazine Title][2]

    [2]: ./README.md#some-magazine
    ```

Then you browse the repository in the web browser enjoying GitHubs preview of Markdown files in the repo. You would like to navigate from `list.md` to `./README.md#some-magazine` by clicking the list item link generated by [glossarify-md][3]. You'd expect your browser to *scroll* to the link target quite at the bottom of `page.md` *but it doesn't!*

## [Root Cause](#root-cause)

**GitHub sanitizes Markdown files** (see [GFM 🌎][4] Sect.1.1) before HTML-rendering them within repository previews. It does so to safeguard GitHub users from evil repository owners who attempt to embed scripts and harmful content into markdown and make that content execute in a victims browser while it browses GitHub. To prevent that GitHub only allows for a small subset of the most commonly used and safe HTML tags and strips others. `<cite>` is among those that *are* stripped. The browser therefore can't find that element in the Markdown preview and consequently can't scroll to it.

## [Workaround](#workaround)

If you care for navigability in GitHub repositories only use HTML tags like `<span>` or `<a>` that aren't stripped in GitHub repository previews.

**Note that this is a limitation of GitHub's repository preview renderer *only*!** It is not a bug in [glossarify-md][3] and once you use a static website generator to generate HTML files from Markdown in order to host them on [GitHub Pages 🌎][5] or your own webserver, things will work just fine. It's just when navigating GitHub *previews* of Markdown files where things may not work as you would expect them to do.

[1]: https://github.com/about-code/glossarify-md/blob/master/conf/README.md

[3]: https://github.com/about-code/glossarify-md

[4]: https://github.github.com/gfm/ "GitHub Flavoured Markdown"

[5]: https://pages.github.com/ "GitHub Pages is a static website rendering and publishing service by GitHub Inc."
